## Normalizing (=unifying) the results

Yesterday HLB and MS met to discussed the progress and where to go next. One thing that came up is the need to compare the results gained from various faces. So far, we drew the naive home on the original image. So, images with different scale and proportions (for example, head only vs. head + shoulders) yielded results we could not really compare. To solve this, the points are now converted and normalized in the following manner:

1. The min and max x (of all points) is calculated.
2. The min and max y is calculated.
3. The range x (maxX-minX) is calculated as sX.
4. The range y (maxY-minY) is calculated as sY.
5. Each point is linearly transformed: (x,y) -> ( (x-minX)/sX , (y-minY)/sY )

This ensures that all extracted coordinates live in a simple, unified, world ranging from (0,0) to (1,1), this will ensure easier comparison. Obviously, the drawing will do the required scaling and shifting.

Besides that, many new ideas, directions and 'fine tunings' came up. Wish we had time to list and explain them all, we'll document only the top pics:
1. We need to enable saving of the analyzed images and extracted data so that we can return to them and compare or reprocess them.
2. The interpretation - or the drawing - can be updated and modified, we are still looking for the meaningful one.
3. Looking for the meaningful mapping, brought up the idea of letting the crowd use the platform and build their own interpretation (or drawing). This will bring in many ideas and possibilities. In a sense, this direction is a small scale version of github forking or, of the [processingjs gallery](http://studio.sketchpad.cc/sp/padlist/all-portfolio-sketches) where you can pick a sketch you like and 'fork' it to modify it.

Heads up, some of the things mentioned above raised the requirements from our web backend. It seems like MS is about to start a little adventure into the [GO programming language](http://golang.org/), with the intent to use it on [Google's app engine](https://developers.google.com/appengine/), this will enable along side fast and reliable web serving, a quick interface to [storage](https://developers.google.com/appengine/docs/go/datastore/) for storage and retrieval of the generated by the process. It looks like this is going to be interesting (but...challanging). 